README.md, before:

# apftool-rs

A Rust tool for unpacking and packing RockChip firmware images (RKFW and RKAF formats).

## Features

- Unpack RKFW firmware files
- Extract embedded RKAF update images
- Pack RKFW/RKAF files
- Support for various RockChip chip families (RK29xx, RK30xx, RK31xx, RK32xx, RK3368, RK3326, RK3566, RK3562, PX30)
- Cross-platform support (Windows, macOS, Linux)

## Build

### Standard build
```bash
cargo build --release
```

### Universal macOS binary
```bash
./build.sh
```

### GitHub Actions
This project includes automated CI/CD with GitHub Actions that builds binaries for:
- Linux x86_64
- Linux ARM64 (aarch64)
- macOS x86_64
- macOS ARM64 (Apple Silicon)
- macOS Universal Binary
- Windows x86_64

Releases are automatically created when you push a version tag (e.g., `v1.0.0`).

## Usage

### Unpacking

```bash
afptool-rs unpack <input_file> <output_directory>
```

**Unpack RKFW firmware:**
```bash
$ afptool-rs unpack rk.img ./out
RKFW signature detected
version: 1.0.0
code: 0x02000000
date: 2025-11-06 13:33:14 (Unix timestamp: 1762435994)
family: RK3562
00000066-00072a25 BOOT                       (size: 469440)
00072a26-10495a29 embedded-update.img        (size: 272773124)
```

**Extract embedded RKAF update image:**
```bash
$ afptool-rs unpack ./out/embedded-update.img ./out
Filesize: 272773124
manufacturer:  RK3562
model:  RK3562
00000800-000000fb ./out/package-file
00001000-0000021d ./out/parameter.txt
00001800-000729c0 ./out/MiniLoaderAll.bin
00074800-00400000 ./out/uboot.img
00074800-00400000 ./out/uboot.img
00474800-0000c000 ./out/misc.img
00480800-01084800 ./out/boot.img
00480800-01084800 ./out/boot.img
01505000-0df1e000 ./out/rootfs.img
01505000-0df1e000 ./out/rootfs.img
0f423000-00800000 ./out/oem.img
0fc23000-00800000 ./out/userdata.img

Partition metadata saved to: ./out/partition-metadata.txt
```

### Packing

**Pack RKFW firmware:**
```bash
afptool-rs pack-rkfw <input_directory> <output_file> --chip <chip> --version <version> --timestamp <unix_timestamp> --code <code_field_hex> 
```

Example:
```bash
$ afptool-rs pack-rkfw ./out ./repacked.img --chip RK3562 --version 1.0.0 --timestamp 1762435994 --code 0x02000000
Successfully packed RKFW image:
  Output: ./repacked.img
  Version: 1.0.0
  Date: 2025-11-06 13:33:14
  Chip: RK3562 (code: 0x32)
  BOOT size: 469440 bytes
  Update image size: 272773124 bytes
  MD5: 9574d7cdf6f6a45bfaaad62f171fd185
  Total size: 273242698 bytes
```

**Pack RKAF update image:**
```bash
afptool-rs pack-rkaf <input_directory> <output_file> --model <model> --manufacturer <manufacturer>
```

Example:
```bash
$ afptool-rs pack-rkaf ./out repacked-update.img --model RK3562 --manufacturer RK3562
Successfully packed RKAF image:
  Output: repacked-update.img
  Model: RK3562
  Manufacturer: RK3562
  Parts: 12
  Total size: 272773120 bytes
```

**Notes:**
- When unpacking RKAF, partition metadata is saved to `partition-metadata.txt`. You need correct metadata to pack RKAF
- Use `--timestamp` parameter to preserve the original build timestamp for byte-perfect matching

## Supported Formats

- **RKFW**: RockChip firmware wrapper format
- **RKAF**: RockChip Android firmware package format

## Supported Chip Families

| Chip Code | Family  |
|-----------|---------|
| 0x50      | rk29xx  |
| 0x60      | rk30xx  |
| 0x70      | rk31xx  |
| 0x80      | rk32xx  |
| 0x41      | rk3368  |
| 0x36      | RK3326  |
| 0x32      | RK3562  |
| 0x38      | RK3566  |
| 0x30      | PX30    |

## Testing

### Run Unit Tests

```bash
cargo test
```

### Run All Tests (Including Integration Tests)

```bash
cargo test -- --include-ignored
```

### Run Specific Test

```bash
cargo test test_update_header_from_bytes
```

### Test Coverage

The test cases cover the following functionality:

- Parsing RKFW and RKAF file headers
- Unpacking RKFW and RKAF files
- Command-line interface validation
- Error handling

## License

This project is licensed under the Apache License 2.0 - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

Commit message:

docs: describe ignored integration tests

README.md, after:

# apftool-rs

A Rust tool for unpacking and packing RockChip firmware images (RKFW and RKAF formats).

## Features

- Unpack RKFW firmware files
- Extract embedded RKAF update images
- Pack RKFW/RKAF files
- Support for various RockChip chip families (RK29xx, RK30xx, RK31xx, RK32xx, RK3368, RK3326, RK3566, RK3562, PX30)
- Cross-platform support (Windows, macOS, Linux)

## Build

### Standard build
```bash
cargo build --release
```

### Universal macOS binary
```bash
./build.sh
```

### GitHub Actions
This project includes automated CI/CD with GitHub Actions that builds binaries for:
- Linux x86_64
- Linux ARM64 (aarch64)
- macOS x86_64
- macOS ARM64 (Apple Silicon)
- macOS Universal Binary
- Windows x86_64

Releases are automatically created when you push a version tag (e.g., `v1.0.0`).

## Usage

### Unpacking

```bash
afptool-rs unpack <input_file> <output_directory>
```

**Unpack RKFW firmware:**
```bash
$ afptool-rs unpack rk.img ./out
RKFW signature detected
version: 1.0.0
code: 0x02000000
date: 2025-11-06 13:33:14 (Unix timestamp: 1762435994)
family: RK3562
00000066-00072a25 BOOT                       (size: 469440)
00072a26-10495a29 embedded-update.img        (size: 272773124)
```

**Extract embedded RKAF update image:**
```bash
$ afptool-rs unpack ./out/embedded-update.img ./out
Filesize: 272773124
manufacturer:  RK3562
model:  RK3562
00000800-000000fb ./out/package-file
00001000-0000021d ./out/parameter.txt
00001800-000729c0 ./out/MiniLoaderAll.bin
00074800-00400000 ./out/uboot.img
00074800-00400000 ./out/uboot.img
00474800-0000c000 ./out/misc.img
00480800-01084800 ./out/boot.img
00480800-01084800 ./out/boot.img
01505000-0df1e000 ./out/rootfs.img
01505000-0df1e000 ./out/rootfs.img
0f423000-00800000 ./out/oem.img
0fc23000-00800000 ./out/userdata.img

Partition metadata saved to: ./out/partition-metadata.txt
```

### Run Ignored Integration Suites

Some integration-style tests exercise the full CLI binary and are marked with
`#[ignore]` to avoid running them on every `cargo test`. You can run these
targeted suites when you have the mocked firmware files available:

```bash
# Advanced scenarios from tests/advanced_tests.rs
cargo test advanced_tests -- --ignored

# CLI level assertions from tests/cli_tests.rs
cargo test cli_tests -- --ignored
```

The helpers in `tests/advanced_tests.rs` and `tests/cli_tests.rs` will generate
temporary RKFW/RKAF mock artifacts under `tests/data/integration`, so no
additional setup is required beyond ensuring the output directory is writable.

### Packing

**Pack RKFW firmware:**
```bash
afptool-rs pack-rkfw <input_directory> <output_file> --chip <chip> --version <version> --timestamp <unix_timestamp> --code <code_field_hex> 
```

Example:
```bash
$ afptool-rs pack-rkfw ./out ./repacked.img --chip RK3562 --version 1.0.0 --timestamp 1762435994 --code 0x02000000
Successfully packed RKFW image:
  Output: ./repacked.img
  Version: 1.0.0
  Date: 2025-11-06 13:33:14
  Chip: RK3562 (code: 0x32)
  BOOT size: 469440 bytes
  Update image size: 272773124 bytes
  MD5: 9574d7cdf6f6a45bfaaad62f171fd185
  Total size: 273242698 bytes
```

**Pack RKAF update image:**
```bash
afptool-rs pack-rkaf <input_directory> <output_file> --model <model> --manufacturer <manufacturer>
```

Example:
```bash
$ afptool-rs pack-rkaf ./out repacked-update.img --model RK3562 --manufacturer RK3562
Successfully packed RKAF image:
  Output: repacked-update.img
  Model: RK3562
  Manufacturer: RK3562
  Parts: 12
  Total size: 272773120 bytes
```

**Notes:**
- When unpacking RKAF, partition metadata is saved to `partition-metadata.txt`. You need correct metadata to pack RKAF
- Use `--timestamp` parameter to preserve the original build timestamp for byte-perfect matching

## Supported Formats

- **RKFW**: RockChip firmware wrapper format
- **RKAF**: RockChip Android firmware package format

## Supported Chip Families

| Chip Code | Family  |
|-----------|---------|
| 0x50      | rk29xx  |
| 0x60      | rk30xx  |
| 0x70      | rk31xx  |
| 0x80      | rk32xx  |
| 0x41      | rk3368  |
| 0x36      | RK3326  |
| 0x32      | RK3562  |
| 0x38      | RK3566  |
| 0x30      | PX30    |

## Testing

### Run Unit Tests

```bash
cargo test
```

### Run All Tests (Including Integration Tests)

```bash
cargo test -- --include-ignored
```

### Run Specific Test

```bash
cargo test test_update_header_from_bytes
```

### Test Coverage

The test cases cover the following functionality:

- Parsing RKFW and RKAF file headers
- Unpacking RKFW and RKAF files
- Command-line interface validation
- Error handling

## License

This project is licensed under the Apache License 2.0 - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.
